{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12100\viewh17460\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 What is the point of creating things in code?\
What can code do that you can't do by defining things by hand?\
- goes forever\
- interactive\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 - precision\

\b\fs30 - see every option, the code can discover things for you\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \

\b KNOWING YOUR MEDIUM
\b0 \
Why are the examples the way they are?\
Understanding numbers\
Mastering code for the purpose of expression\
Which idiomatic expressions are good for what\
Painting or instrumenting music.
\b \

\b0 Going back to the 1950s in modern art.\
Tools : Random and Noise, Probability, Wave Functions, Objects, For Loops, If/Else statements, Recursion\
\
\

\b INTRO TO CASE SWITCH STATEMENTS\
INTRO TO INLINE BOOLEANS
\b0 \
\

\b 30m RATIOS OF SPACE
\b0 \
Introduction to a grid\
Review of a for loop\
Create a grid - change the size of the cells\
Ask students to tell you where the important part of the code is\
Interleave\
Quarter\
Nest - What does that long if statement look like? (Mouseover logic!)\
Commodore - mystery of numbers -- the bigger the number, the less likely it's going to happen\
\

\b IN-CLASS EXERCISES
\b0 \
- Play around with the controls for each example starting with changing the size of the cell.\
- Take something you've done where you placed things randomly on the screen or in a straight grid\'85and try applying one of these techniques.\
- Figure out how to make these patterns change on their own.\
\

\b 15m RATIOS OF TIME
\b0 \
Create basic counter and % example.\
on_off\
What are the emotions associated with expanses of time?\
Long stretches of time, the viewer creates their own arc - 7 stages of grief.\
How often do I update the view with interaction from the user? What's the delay?\
Fadeouts in movies to punctuate time passing.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 IN-CLASS EXERCISES
\b0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 What are some events you've created in your sketches? Everything appears on the screen at once. e.g. Fish swimming. Raining.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 10m Introduction to PVector\

\b0 Vectors - arrows with direction and magnitude.\
For us, PVector is a convenient data type that holds 2 numbers instead of one. (2 floats to be precise.)\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \

\b 30m RATIOS OF COLOR\

\b0 - Pull up color wheel - talk about how different colors make you feel. Is it cultural?\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 - Explanation of additive versus subtractive color\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 - RGB versus HSB\
\
- color as bouncing ball example\
- what happens if you futz with the relationship between color values?\
- what happens if you futz with the relationship between speeds?\
\
- Basic moving color around RGB example\
- RGB and HSB examples\
- How would we make the colors stay close to each other?\
- How do we make them opposite?\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 IN-CLASS EXERCISES
\b0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 Take some time right now to play with the ratios a bit. What do you notice?\
\
///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 ///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////\
/////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////// WAVES /////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////\
///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////\
///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \

\b Why do we care about wave functions? \

\b0 - Periodic - good way of creating patterns\
- Organic\
- Modulatable to create complex graphs\
Rollercoaster videos\
\

\b TRIG REVIEW\

\b0 Polar versus Cartesian coordinates\
What is PI? What are radians?\
What is sin? SOHCAHTOA\
Why is sin and cos simply a matter of phase shift?\
Sine_Wave illustration example\
\
INTRO TO CIRCLES\
- review on your own\
\
SINE WAVE\
- basic sine wave\
- modulate\
\

\b AFFECTING SPEED
\b0 \
- extract basic sine example from the sine speed example\
- sine - try the 2 different options\
- linear, sine, cosine, tan - try commenting out constrain on tan\
\

\b AFFECTING TIMING OF EVENTS
\b0 \
- beat\
\

\b AFFECTING PATHWAY OF MOVEMENT\

\b0 - moving_bezier\
\

\b AFFECTING RATIOS OF SPACE AND TIME
\b0 \
- intervals\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 IN-CLASS EXERCISES\

\b0 - Take a sketch you've done and try to affect it's speed with sine or cosine instead of just +1\
- Take a sketch and affect the timing of events based on sine\
- Or move it based on sine}