{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11360\viewh17400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 RECURSION\
Almost all of you talked about the patterns changing over time.\
How do we make our patterns more dynamic within the pattern?\
\
45min\
EX: position\
EX: position_modulate\
EX: position_modulate_multi\
\

\b0 Go over inheritance - who\'92s worked with inheritance before? Why did you need it?\
Review the sawtooth and square wave formulas.\
What are their dynamic qualities?\

\b \
Show the modulation with the waves example.\
\

\b0 Introduce recursive counting.\
\

\b 45min\
EX Show recursive tree example.\
EX Show recursive_Waves.\
EX Show recursive_whatever.\

\b0 \
Diagram what\'92s happening with recursive waves.\
\

\b RANDOM AND PROBABILITY\

\b0 2 volunteers - slap hands game.\
Show the bunny rabbit video.\
Graph the level of chaos in it.\
\

\b EX Show zoomed in random.\

\b0 \

\b 15min\

\b0 Another way to make patterns dynamic. Change them at unpredictable times.\
It means they need to go longer than we expected - e.g. Zoe\'92s opening.\
Or shorter than we expected.\
Which presupposes we have an expectation in the first place.\
We expect to hear a pattern at least twice otherwise it doesn\'92t register as a pattern.\
\
Why is it so hard to create a random number generator? It\'92s a paradox. An algorithm to create random-seeming numbers.\
\
Normally we use random to randomize something that\'92s predictable.\
What if we turn random on it\'92s head? Make random the noun, not the adjective?\
Generate patterns of random. Play with the length of patterns and when they get disrupted.\
The longer a pattern persists - the more you convey a sense of order. A drone.\
The shorter, more frequently patterns are interrupted - chaos and disruption.\
This is the tension you\'92re playing with.\
\

\b Introduction the concept of probability.\

\b0 x = random(width) versus x = random(10);\

\b \

\b0 Constraining random.\
if(random(1) > ?) where ? is the pattern.\
\

\b 45 min
\b0 \

\b EX: adjust_boundary\
EX: adjust_th\
EX: game_theory - 
\b0 What would happen if you had 64 cells?\

\b EX: bean\

\b0 \
\

\b WHAT IS NOISE? - In place of random, you can use noise.\
\
Noise is a mathematical function where there is a relationships between t or time and some noisy output.\
\
EX: noise\
EX: balloon\

\b0 \
This idea of \'93constrained\'94 and \'93weighted\'94 random is also what\'92s behind noise.\
\
Similar to building up the complexity of sound\
Adding octaves, adding pitches an octave up\
Falloff is the relative \'93loudness\'94 of those pitches\
The more pitches, the louder they are, the \'93noisier\'94 the function\
\
You can make something get noisier over time. How would you do that with balloon?\
Hook it up to sin and cos\
Then hook it up to the different wave types.\
\
There\'92s a pattern.\
But then there\'92s also variety and unpredictability.\
\

\b Preview of \'93Voices\'94
\b0 \
Brainstorm ways to hook into the random examples.\
Switch back and forth between your patterns.}